docs/components/points.rst, before:

Points
######

.. vale off

Point Actions
*************

.. vale on

In Mautic, custom Point Actions give a Contact `x` Points for doing a certain action.

Mautic dispatches the Event ``\Mautic\PointBundle\PointEvents::POINT_ON_BUILD`` for Plugins to register their custom Point Action. Listeners receive a ``Mautic\PointBundle\Event\PointBuilderEvent`` object. Register the Event using the ``addAction`` method as described below.

.. php:namespace:: Mautic\PointBundle\Event
.. php:class:: PointBuilderEvent

  PointBuilderEvent class

  .. php:method:: public addAction(string $key, array $action)

      :param string $key: Unique key for the Action.
      :param array $action: :ref:`Action definition<components/points:Custom Point Action definition>`.

  .. php:method:: public getActions()

      :return: Array of registered Actions.
      :returntype: array

.. vale off

Registering a Custom Point Action
==================================

.. vale on

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    declare(strict_types=1);

    namespace MauticPlugin\HelloWorldBundle\EventListener;

    use Mautic\PointBundle\Event\PointBuilderEvent;
    use Mautic\PointBundle\PointEvents;
    use MauticPlugin\HelloWorldBundle\Form\Type\PointActionsType;
    use Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\EventSubscriberInterface;

    class PointSubscriber implements EventSubscriberInterface
    {
        public static function getSubscribedEvents(): array
        {
            return [
                PointEvents::POINT_ON_BUILD => ['onPointBuild', 0],
            ];
        }

        public function onPointBuild(PointBuilderEvent $event)
        {
            $action = [
                'group'    => 'helloworld.points.actions',
                'label'    => 'helloworld.points.actions.action',
                'callback' => [self::class, 'addPointTriggerCallback'],
                'formType' => PointActionsType::class,
            ];

            $event->addAction('helloworld.action', $action);
        }

        public static function addPointTriggerCallback(array $action, array $eventDetails): bool
        {
            // .. Add logic to weigh the action.
        }
    }


In order for the custom Point Action to work, add something like the following in the code logic when the Contact executes the custom action:

.. code-block:: php
    
    <?php
    
    $this->getModel('point')->triggerAction('helloworld.action', $event->getHit());

.. vale off

Custom Point Action definition
==============================

.. vale on

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Key
      - Required
      - Type
      - Description
    * - ``label``
      - REQUIRED
      - string
      - The language string for the option in the dropdown
    * - ``formType``
      - OPTIONAL
      - string
      - The alias of a custom Form type used to set config options.
    * - ``formTypeOptions``
      - OPTIONAL
      - array[]
      - Array of options to include into the ``formType``’s $options argument
    * - ``formTypeCleanMasks``
      - OPTIONAL
      - array[]
      - Array of input masks to clean a values from ``formType``
    * - ``formTypeTheme``
      - OPTIONAL
      - string
      - Theme to customize elements for ``formType``
    * - ``template``
      - OPTIONAL
      - string
      - View template used to render the ``formType``
    * - ``callback``
      - OPTIONAL
      - mixed
      - Static callback function used to validate the action. Return true to add the Points to the Contact.

.. vale off

Point Triggers
**************

.. vale on

A custom Point Trigger used to execute a specific action once a Contact reaches X number of Points.

Mautic dispatches the Event ``\Mautic\PointBundle\PointEvents::TRIGGER_ON_BUILD`` for Plugins to register their custom Point Triggers. Listeners receive a ``Mautic\PointBundle\Event\TriggerBuilderEvent`` object. Register the Event using the ``addEvent`` method as described below.

.. php:class:: Mautic\PointBundle\Event\TriggerBuilderEvent

.. php:method:: public function addEvent(string $key, array $action)

    :param string $key: Unique key for the Action.
    :param array $action: :ref:`Action definition<components/points:Custom Point Trigger definition>`.

.. php:method:: public getEvents()

    :return: Array of registered Events.
    :returntype: array

.. vale off

Registering a Custom Point Trigger
===================================

.. vale on

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    declare(strict_types=1);

    namespace MauticPlugin\HelloWorldBundle\EventListener;

    use Mautic\CoreBundle\Factory\MauticFactory;
    use Mautic\HelloWorldBundle\Form\Type\TriggerChoiceType;
    use Mautic\PointBundle\Event\TriggerBuilderEvent;
    use Mautic\PointBundle\PointEvents;
    use Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\EventSubscriberInterface;

    class PointSubscriber implements EventSubscriberInterface
    {
        public static function getSubscribedEvents(): array
        {
            return [
                PointEvents::TRIGGER_ON_BUILD => ['onTriggerBuild', 0],
            ];
        }

        public function onTriggerBuild(TriggerBuilderEvent $event)
        {
            $changeLists = [
                'group'    => 'mautic.campaign.point.trigger',
                'label'    => 'mautic.campaign.point.trigger.changecampaigns',
                'callback' => [self::class, 'updatePointsOnBuild'],
                'formType' => TriggerChoiceType::class,
            ];

            $event->addEvent('campaign.changecampaign', $changeLists);
        }

        public static function updatePointsOnBuild($config, $lead, MauticFactory $factory): bool
        {
            // Add custom code to do some action.
        }
    }

.. vale off

Custom Point Trigger definition
===============================

.. vale on

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Key
      - Required
      - Type
      - Description
    * - ``label``
      - REQUIRED
      - string
      - The language string for the option in the dropdown
    * - ``formType``
      - OPTIONAL
      - string
      - The alias of a custom Form type used to set config options.
    * - ``formTypeOptions``
      - OPTIONAL
      - array[]
      - Array of options to include into the ``formType``'s $options argument
    * - ``formTypeCleanMasks``
      - OPTIONAL
      - array[]
      - Array of input masks to clean a values from ``formType``
    * - ``formTypeTheme``
      - OPTIONAL
      - string
      - Theme to customize elements for ``formType``
    * - ``template``
      - OPTIONAL
      - string
      - View template used to render the ``formType``
    * - ``callback``
      - OPTIONAL
      - mixed
      - Static callback function used to execute the custom action.

Commit message:

Update points.rst to explain point trigger on another Contact
Update points.rst to explain point trigger on another Contact

docs/components/points.rst, after:

Points
######

.. vale off

Point Actions
*************

.. vale on

In Mautic, custom Point Actions give a Contact `x` Points for doing a certain action.

Mautic dispatches the Event ``\Mautic\PointBundle\PointEvents::POINT_ON_BUILD`` for Plugins to register their custom Point Action. Listeners receive a ``Mautic\PointBundle\Event\PointBuilderEvent`` object. Register the Event using the ``addAction`` method as described below.

.. php:namespace:: Mautic\PointBundle\Event
.. php:class:: PointBuilderEvent

  PointBuilderEvent class

  .. php:method:: public addAction(string $key, array $action)

      :param string $key: Unique key for the Action.
      :param array $action: :ref:`Action definition<components/points:Custom Point Action definition>`.

  .. php:method:: public getActions()

      :return: Array of registered Actions.
      :returntype: array

.. vale off

Registering a Custom Point Action
==================================

.. vale on

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    declare(strict_types=1);

    namespace MauticPlugin\HelloWorldBundle\EventListener;

    use Mautic\PointBundle\Event\PointBuilderEvent;
    use Mautic\PointBundle\PointEvents;
    use MauticPlugin\HelloWorldBundle\Form\Type\PointActionsType;
    use Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\EventSubscriberInterface;

    class PointSubscriber implements EventSubscriberInterface
    {
        public static function getSubscribedEvents(): array
        {
            return [
                PointEvents::POINT_ON_BUILD => ['onPointBuild', 0],
            ];
        }

        public function onPointBuild(PointBuilderEvent $event)
        {
            $action = [
                'group'    => 'helloworld.points.actions',
                'label'    => 'helloworld.points.actions.action',
                'callback' => [self::class, 'addPointTriggerCallback'],
                'formType' => PointActionsType::class,
            ];

            $event->addAction('helloworld.action', $action);
        }

        public static function addPointTriggerCallback(array $action, array $eventDetails): bool
        {
            // .. Add logic to weigh the action.
        }
    }


In order for the custom Point Action to work, add something like the following in the code logic when the Contact executes the custom action:

.. code-block:: php
    
    <?php
    
    $this->getModel('point')->triggerAction('helloworld.action', $event->getHit());

This triggers the custom Point Action for the currently tracked Contact. If you need to perform the Point Action on another Contact you have to pass the Contact's object when invoking ``triggerAction``:

.. code-block:: php
    
    <?php
    
    $this->getModel('point')->triggerAction('helloworld.action', $event->getHit());


.. vale off

Custom Point Action definition
==============================

.. vale on

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Key
      - Required
      - Type
      - Description
    * - ``label``
      - REQUIRED
      - string
      - The language string for the option in the dropdown
    * - ``formType``
      - OPTIONAL
      - string
      - The alias of a custom Form type used to set config options.
    * - ``formTypeOptions``
      - OPTIONAL
      - array[]
      - Array of options to include into the ``formType``’s $options argument
    * - ``formTypeCleanMasks``
      - OPTIONAL
      - array[]
      - Array of input masks to clean a values from ``formType``
    * - ``formTypeTheme``
      - OPTIONAL
      - string
      - Theme to customize elements for ``formType``
    * - ``template``
      - OPTIONAL
      - string
      - View template used to render the ``formType``
    * - ``callback``
      - OPTIONAL
      - mixed
      - Static callback function used to validate the action. Return true to add the Points to the Contact.

.. vale off

Point Triggers
**************

.. vale on

A custom Point Trigger used to execute a specific action once a Contact reaches X number of Points.

Mautic dispatches the Event ``\Mautic\PointBundle\PointEvents::TRIGGER_ON_BUILD`` for Plugins to register their custom Point Triggers. Listeners receive a ``Mautic\PointBundle\Event\TriggerBuilderEvent`` object. Register the Event using the ``addEvent`` method as described below.

.. php:class:: Mautic\PointBundle\Event\TriggerBuilderEvent

.. php:method:: public function addEvent(string $key, array $action)

    :param string $key: Unique key for the Action.
    :param array $action: :ref:`Action definition<components/points:Custom Point Trigger definition>`.

.. php:method:: public getEvents()

    :return: Array of registered Events.
    :returntype: array

.. vale off

Registering a Custom Point Trigger
===================================

.. vale on

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    declare(strict_types=1);

    namespace MauticPlugin\HelloWorldBundle\EventListener;

    use Mautic\CoreBundle\Factory\MauticFactory;
    use Mautic\HelloWorldBundle\Form\Type\TriggerChoiceType;
    use Mautic\PointBundle\Event\TriggerBuilderEvent;
    use Mautic\PointBundle\PointEvents;
    use Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\EventSubscriberInterface;

    class PointSubscriber implements EventSubscriberInterface
    {
        public static function getSubscribedEvents(): array
        {
            return [
                PointEvents::TRIGGER_ON_BUILD => ['onTriggerBuild', 0],
            ];
        }

        public function onTriggerBuild(TriggerBuilderEvent $event)
        {
            $changeLists = [
                'group'    => 'mautic.campaign.point.trigger',
                'label'    => 'mautic.campaign.point.trigger.changecampaigns',
                'callback' => [self::class, 'updatePointsOnBuild'],
                'formType' => TriggerChoiceType::class,
            ];

            $event->addEvent('campaign.changecampaign', $changeLists);
        }

        public static function updatePointsOnBuild($config, $lead, MauticFactory $factory): bool
        {
            // Add custom code to do some action.
        }
    }

.. vale off

Custom Point Trigger definition
===============================

.. vale on

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Key
      - Required
      - Type
      - Description
    * - ``label``
      - REQUIRED
      - string
      - The language string for the option in the dropdown
    * - ``formType``
      - OPTIONAL
      - string
      - The alias of a custom Form type used to set config options.
    * - ``formTypeOptions``
      - OPTIONAL
      - array[]
      - Array of options to include into the ``formType``'s $options argument
    * - ``formTypeCleanMasks``
      - OPTIONAL
      - array[]
      - Array of input masks to clean a values from ``formType``
    * - ``formTypeTheme``
      - OPTIONAL
      - string
      - Theme to customize elements for ``formType``
    * - ``template``
      - OPTIONAL
      - string
      - View template used to render the ``formType``
    * - ``callback``
      - OPTIONAL
      - mixed
      - Static callback function used to execute the custom action.
