docs/index.rst, before:

Welcome to Mautic's developer documentation
===========================================

This is a work in progress. More to come soon. In the meantime, go to :xref:`Legacy Developer Docs` to view the developer documentation.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Development Environment
   :hidden:

   development-environment/getting_started
   development-environment/how_to_install_with_ddev
   development-environment/setup
   development-environment/environments

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Themes
   :hidden:

   themes/getting_started
   themes/grapesjs
   themes/legacy
   themes/forms
   themes/system

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Form Hooks
   :hidden:

   form_hooks/getting_started
   form_hooks/general_hooks
   form_hooks/validation_hooks
   form_hooks/response_hooks

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Webhooks
   :hidden:

   webhooks/getting_started
   webhooks/example_scripts
   webhooks/events/index

.. toctree::
   :caption: Mautic Marketplace
   :hidden:

   marketplace/getting_started
   marketplace/listing
   marketplace/allowlist_what_and_why
   marketplace/best_practices

.. toctree::
   :caption: Plugins
   :hidden:

   plugins/getting_started
   plugins/autowiring
   plugins/mautic_vs_symfony
   plugins/dependencies
   plugins/event_listeners
   plugins/structure
   plugins/config
   plugins/installation
   plugins/data
   plugins/translations
   plugins/continuous-integration

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Extending Mautic
   :hidden:

   components/api
   components/cache
   components/campaigns
   components/categories
   components/channels
   components/config
   components/contacts
   components/core
   components/emails
   components/forms
   components/forms_advanced
   components/integrations
   components/ip_lookups
   components/landing_pages
   components/maintenance
   components/points
   components/queue
   components/reports
   components/security
   components/tracking_script
   components/translator
   components/ui

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: REST API
   :hidden:

   rest_api/getting_started
   rest_api/assets
   rest_api/authentication
   rest_api/campaigns
   rest_api/categories
   rest_api/companies
   rest_api/contacts
   rest_api/dashboard_widget_data
   rest_api/dynamic_content
   rest_api/emails
   rest_api/fields
   rest_api/files
   rest_api/forms
   rest_api/marketing_messages
   rest_api/notes
   rest_api/notifications
   rest_api/pages
   rest_api/point_actions
   rest_api/point_triggers
   rest_api/reports
   rest_api/roles
   rest_api/segments
   rest_api/stages
   rest_api/stats
   rest_api/tags
   rest_api/text_messages
   rest_api/themes
   rest_api/tweets
   rest_api/users
   rest_api/webhooks

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

Finalize Getting Started and Auth docs

docs/index.rst, after:

Welcome to Mautic's developer documentation
===========================================

This is a work in progress. More to come soon. In the meantime, go to :xref:`Legacy Developer Docs` to view the developer documentation.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Development Environment
   :hidden:

   development-environment/getting_started
   development-environment/how_to_install_with_ddev
   development-environment/setup
   development-environment/environments

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Themes
   :hidden:

   themes/getting_started
   themes/grapesjs
   themes/legacy
   themes/forms
   themes/system

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Form Hooks
   :hidden:

   form_hooks/getting_started
   form_hooks/general_hooks
   form_hooks/validation_hooks
   form_hooks/response_hooks

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Webhooks
   :hidden:

   webhooks/getting_started
   webhooks/example_scripts
   webhooks/events/index

.. toctree::
   :caption: Mautic Marketplace
   :hidden:

   marketplace/getting_started
   marketplace/listing
   marketplace/allowlist_what_and_why
   marketplace/best_practices

.. toctree::
   :caption: Plugins
   :hidden:

   plugins/getting_started
   plugins/autowiring
   plugins/mautic_vs_symfony
   plugins/dependencies
   plugins/event_listeners
   plugins/structure
   plugins/config
   plugins/installation
   plugins/data
   plugins/translations
   plugins/continuous-integration

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Extending Mautic
   :hidden:

   components/api
   components/cache
   components/campaigns
   components/categories
   components/channels
   components/config
   components/contacts
   components/core
   components/emails
   components/forms
   components/forms_advanced
   components/integrations
   components/ip_lookups
   components/landing_pages
   components/maintenance
   components/points
   components/queue
   components/reports
   components/security
   components/tracking_script
   components/translator
   components/ui

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: REST API
   :hidden:

   .. Added the "Getting Started" and "Authentication" docs to the top for better visibility

   rest_api/getting_started
   rest_api/authentication

   rest_api/assets
   rest_api/campaigns
   rest_api/categories
   rest_api/companies
   rest_api/contacts
   rest_api/dashboard_widget_data
   rest_api/dynamic_content
   rest_api/emails
   rest_api/fields
   rest_api/files
   rest_api/forms
   rest_api/marketing_messages
   rest_api/notes
   rest_api/notifications
   rest_api/pages
   rest_api/point_actions
   rest_api/point_triggers
   rest_api/reports
   rest_api/roles
   rest_api/segments
   rest_api/stages
   rest_api/stats
   rest_api/tags
   rest_api/text_messages
   rest_api/themes
   rest_api/tweets
   rest_api/users
   rest_api/webhooks

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
